Atru/create meta args reference topics (#1179)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform/v1.13.x/docs/language/meta-arguments/lifecycle.mdx

---
page_title: lifecycle meta-argument reference
description: How to configure the lifecycle meta-argument rules in Terraform--create_before_destroy, prevent_destroy, ignore_changes, replace_triggered_by, precondition, postcondition, destroy
---

# `lifecycle` reference
 
Terraform performs the following operations when you apply a configuration:

1. Creates resources defined in the configuration that are not associated with a real infrastructure object in the state.
1. Destroys resources that exist in the state but not in the configuration.
1. Updates resources in-place whose arguments have changed.
1. Destroys and re-create resources whose arguments have changed but that Terraform cannot update in-place because of remote API limitations.

The `lifecycle` block accepts a rule that customizes how Terraform performs the lifecycle stages for each resource. 

## Usage

All `lifecycle` settings affect how Terraform constructs and traverses
the dependency graph. As a result, only literal values can be used because
the processing happens too early for arbitrary expression evaluation.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Support for each lifecycle rule varies across Terraform configuration blocks. Refer to the reference documentation for the Terraform block you are adding to your configuration for details. 

Depending on the block you are configuring, you may be able to use one or more of the following rules.
```

This is an opt-in behavior because many remote object types have unique name requirements or other constraints that must be accommodated for both a new and an old object to exist concurrently. Some resource types offer special options to append a random suffix onto each object name to avoid collisions, for example. Terraform CLI cannot automatically activate such features, so you must understand the constraints for each resource type before using `create_before_destroy` with it.

Note that Terraform propagates and applies the `create_before_destroy` meta-attribute behavior to all resource dependencies. For example, if `create_before_destroy` is enabled on resource `A` but not on resource `B`, but resource `A` is dependent on resource `B`, then Terraform enables `create_before_destroy` for resource `B` implicitly by default and stores it to the state file. You cannot override `create_before_destroy`
to `false` on resource `B` because that would imply dependency cycles in the graph.

Destroy provisioners of this resource do not run if `create_before_destroy`

> is set to `true`. This [GitHub issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/13549) contains more details.

Reviewer: It feels a little weird to include a link to a GitHub issue in the documentation. Is there context here that we can capture in the docs without dramatically expanding this section?

> is set to `true`. This [GitHub issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/13549) contains more details.

Author: ```suggestion
When the resource contains a provisioner that runs during the `destroy` operation,  setting `create_before_destroy` to `true` also prevents the provisioner from running. 
```
@BrianMMcClain - I agree, but I wanted to get your take on the original language, which IMO is kind of hard to follow if you don't have the concept of "destroy provisioner". Is this edit clearer?

---

# `lifecycle` reference
 
Terraform performs the following operations when you apply a configuration:

1. Creates resources defined in the configuration that are not associated with a real infrastructure object in the state.
1. Destroys resources that exist in the state but not in the configuration.
1. Updates resources in-place whose arguments have changed.
1. Destroys and re-create resources whose arguments have changed but that Terraform cannot update in-place because of remote API limitations.

The `lifecycle` block accepts a rule that customizes how Terraform performs the lifecycle stages for each resource. 

## Usage

All `lifecycle` settings affect how Terraform constructs and traverses
the dependency graph. As a result, only literal values can be used because
the processing happens too early for arbitrary expression evaluation.

Support for each lifecycle rule varies across Terraform configuration blocks. Refer to the reference documentation for the Terraform block you are adding to your configuration for details. 

Depending on the block you are configuring, you may be able to use one or more of the following rules.

> ### `create_before_destroy` 

Author: ```suggestion

### `create_before_destroy` 
```

By default, when Terraform must change a resource argument that cannot be updated in-place due to remote API limitations, Terraform destroys the existing object and then create a new replacement object with the new configured arguments. Use the `create_before_destroy` rule to instruct Terraform to create a replacement resource before destroying the current resource. 

This is an opt-in behavior because many remote object types have unique name requirements or other constraints that must be accommodated for both a new and an old object to exist concurrently. Some resource types offer special options to append a random suffix onto each object name to avoid collisions, for example. Terraform CLI cannot automatically activate such features, so you must understand the constraints for each resource type before using `create_before_destroy` with it.

> Note that Terraform propagates and applies the `create_before_destroy` meta-attribute behavior to all resource dependencies. For example, if `create_before_destroy` is enabled on resource `A` but not on resource `B`, but resource `A` is dependent on resource `B`, then Terraform enables `create_before_destroy` for resource `B` implicitly by default and stores it to the state file. You cannot override `create_before_destroy`

Author: ```suggestion
#### `create_before_destroy` and resource dependencies

Terraform propagates and applies `create_before_destroy` behavior to all resource dependencies. For example: 

- `create_before_destroy` is enabled on resource `A` but not on resource `B`.
- Because resource `A` is dependent on resource `B1, Terraform enables `create_before_destroy` for resource `B` implicitly by default and stores it to the state file. 

As a result, you cannot override `create_before_destroy`
```

- If the reference is to a single resource instance, a plan to update or
   replace that instance triggers a replacement.
- If the reference is to a single attribute of a resource instance, any
   change to the attribute value triggers a replacement.

You can only reference managed resources in `replace_triggered_by`
expressions. This lets you modify these expressions without forcing
replacement. In the following example, Terraform replaces `aws_appautoscaling_target` each time this instance of `aws_ecs_service` is replaced:

```hcl
resource "aws_appautoscaling_target" "ecs_target" {
   # ...
   lifecycle {
      replace_triggered_by = [
         aws_ecs_service.svc.id
      ]
   }
}
```

`replace_triggered_by` allows only resource addresses because the decision is based on the planned actions for all of the given resources. Plain values, such as local values or input variables, do not have planned actions of their own, but you can treat them with a resource-like lifecycle by using them with the [`terraform_data` resource](/terraform/language/resources/terraform-data).

You can use `replace_triggered_by` in [`resource`](/terraform/language/block/resource) blocks. 

> ### `precondition` 

Reviewer 2: Many of the other H3s have examples but pre and post conditions don't. I do see there are examples in the examples section, so this isn't a blocker, just inconsistent.
